# Entry 2
##### 12/19/2021

In this blog entry, I will be talking about how I have been learning about my tool and how I am planning to learn more during the break. I will be linking sources that helped me learn my tool for the freedom project which is d3.js. The first thing I did to start understanding the tool was to study the codes behind graphs and charts on [d3js.org](https://d3js.org/). I looked at a lot of similar graphs, mainly bar graphs, based on my idea and also for inspiration. I started to look into the codes and started to see the terms used. I learned that `const` is used to assign almost like `var`, `.attr()` is used to add attributes, and that we need some html base to start coding using d3 and more. I looked at these graphs mainly because I am going for a similar visualization project as them, [graph 1](https://observablehq.com/@d3/bar-chart-transitions), [graph(s) 2](https://observablehq.com/@observablehq/plot) & [graph 3](https://observablehq.com/@d3/histogram). I also started searching for videos on how to use and code in d3 and guides to making charts with my tool. One of the videos I watched on d3 is "[Building an interactive chart with D3.js](https://youtu.be/aHJCt2adSWA)" and it has been so helpful in helping me understand the different components of the graphs. The creator does a great job explainging and going through each of the parts and their functions, making it very easy for beginners to understand.

My goal for the upcoming winterbreak is to learn more about d3 and get more familiar with it. I specifically want to watch more videos and follow along them, try code snippets and to see what d3 is capable of. I would also like to take so many more notes and pay extra attention on using each of the various components that makes up the graphs and sata visualizations. I would also like to explore more in depth of what are essential to creating a graph and what can be filtered for base and additional parts for the setup.

My current position in the EDP(Engineering Design Process) would be researching the problem. This would be the second step towards completing my year-long project. I am finding sources to learn from and have been looking for more information on how to use d3. I am also expanding my knowledge on it and how to utilize it for my final product step by step.

I learned a skill of how to learn because I am adapting to the new types of language used in d3. I am also trying to learn more and more especially more concentratedly on Mondays. I am trying to catch up with the process behind the codes as well as how to use them while I work towards the final finished product. I am also seeking for how to merge the information and data with the technology of d3 which is my tool.

[Previous](entry01.md) | [Next](entry03.md)

[Home](../README.md)
